---
sidebar_position: 5
---

# Asynchronous programming and the events generated by a FileStream object opened asynchronously

When a file is opened asynchronously (using the `openAsync()` method), reading
and writing files are done asynchronously. As data is read into the read buffer
and as output data is being written, other ActionScript code can execute.

This means that you need to register for events generated by the FileStream
object opened asynchronously.

By registering for the `progress` event, you can be notified as new data becomes
available for reading, as in the following code:

    var myFile:File = File.documentsDirectory.resolvePath("AIR Test/test.txt");
    var myFileStream:FileStream = new FileStream();
    myFileStream.addEventListener(ProgressEvent.PROGRESS, progressHandler);
    myFileStream.openAsync(myFile, FileMode.READ);
    var str:String = "";

    function progressHandler(event:ProgressEvent):void
    {
    	str += myFileStream.readMultiByte(myFileStream.bytesAvailable, "iso-8859-1");
    }

You can read the entire data by registering for the `complete` event, as in the
following code:

    var myFile:File = File.documentsDirectory.resolvePath("AIR Test/test.txt");
    var myFileStream:FileStream = new FileStream();
    myFileStream.addEventListener(Event.COMPLETE, completed);
    myFileStream.openAsync(myFile, FileMode.READ);
    var str:String = "";
    function completeHandler(event:Event):void
    {
    	str = myFileStream.readMultiByte(myFileStream.bytesAvailable, "iso-8859-1");
    }

In much the same way that input data is buffered to enable asynchronous reading,
data that you write on an asynchronous stream is buffered and written to the
file asynchronously. As data is written to a file, the FileStream object
periodically dispatches an `OutputProgressEvent` object. An
`OutputProgressEvent` object includes a `bytesPending` property that is set to
the number of bytes remaining to be written. You can register for the
`outputProgress` event to be notified as this buffer is actually written to the
file, perhaps in order to display a progress dialog. However, in general, it is
not necessary to do so. In particular, you may call the `close()` method without
concern for the unwritten bytes. The FileStream object will continue writing
data and the `close` event will be delivered after the final byte is written to
the file and the underlying file is closed.
