docs/building/application-descriptor-files/elements/windows.md, before:

---
title: windows 
sidebar_position: 7
---

The `windows` element provides platform-specific settings for applications running on the Windows operating systems. It can contain the following optional elements.

## Elements

### `UseWebView2`

(optional)

Available: 33.1.1.620

Requests the runtime to try creating a Microsoft Edge "WebView2" component, rather than the IE-based "WebBrowser" control, when a native `StageWebView` element is created.

This component will need to be present on an end user's computer before this works: please see Microsoft's information on [downloading the WebView2 runtime](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/#download-section)


### `maxD3D`

(optional)

Available: 33.1.1.929

Sets a limit on the Direct3D APIs used by the AIR runtime on Windows. If this value is set, it should be an integer value and AIR will not use a Direct3D version higher than this value.
Currently this means that to force the runtime to use Direct3D 9, it can be set to `9`, and to prevent the runtime from using Direct3D, it can be set to `0`. The default for new SWFs is Direct3D 11.


### `clipboardFullHTML`

(optional)

Available: 50.0.0.1

This setting can be used to retrieve the full Windows clipboard entry for HTML strings. Default behaviour is `false` which will only provide the body text of the HTML contents.
To ensure the full clipboard contents are retrieved for HTML strings, set the value to `true`.

Commit message:

Updates to the AIR App Descriptor format from AIR SDK 51.1

docs/building/application-descriptor-files/elements/windows.md, after:

---
title: windows 
sidebar_position: 8
---

The `windows` element provides platform-specific settings for applications running on the Windows operating systems. It can contain the following optional elements.

## Elements

### `UseWebView2`

(optional)

Available: 33.1.1.620

Requests the runtime to try creating a Microsoft Edge "WebView2" component, rather than the IE-based "WebBrowser" control, when a native `StageWebView` element is created.

This component will need to be present on an end user's computer before this works: please see Microsoft's information on [downloading the WebView2 runtime](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/webview2/#download-section)

As well as true/false values, a new option `exclusive` can be used from AIR SDK 51.0.0.2. In this mode, there will be no fallback to the IE-based "WebBrowser" control should the AIR runtime be unable to create a "WebView2" component.

### `maxD3D`

(optional)

Available: 33.1.1.929

Sets a limit on the Direct3D APIs used by the AIR runtime on Windows. If this value is set, it should be an integer value and AIR will not use a Direct3D version higher than this value.
Currently this means that to force the runtime to use Direct3D 9, it can be set to `9`, and to prevent the runtime from using Direct3D, it can be set to `0`. The default for new SWFs is Direct3D 11.


### `clipboardFullHTML`

(optional)

Available: 50.0.0.1

This setting can be used to retrieve the full Windows clipboard entry for HTML strings. Default behaviour is `false` which will only provide the body text of the HTML contents.
To ensure the full clipboard contents are retrieved for HTML strings, set the value to `true`.
